.TH "DVDA2TRACK" 1 "September 2015" "" "DVD-Audio Extractor"
.SH NAME
dvda2track \- extract audio files
.SH SYNOPSIS
dvda2track [OPTIONS] [track 1] [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
dvda2track extracts audio files from a DVD-Audio disc and encodes them to tracks. If track numbers are given, extracts only those tracks. Otherwise, extracts the entire title.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR
edit metadata and encoding options in interactive mode prior to extracting files
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cdrom\fR=\fICDROM\fR
the DVD-ROM device to extract audio from
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-audio_ts\fR=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
the DVD-Audio's AUDIO_TS directory
.TP
\fB\-\-title\fR=\fINUMBER\fR
the title number to retrieve tracks from, starting from 1; the number of titles can be determined from the dvdainfo(1) utility
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display. Choose between 'normal', 'quiet' and 'debug'.
.SH EXTRACTION OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR=\fITYPE\fR
The audio format of the extracted audio tracks. For a list of available audio formats, try: -t help.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quality\fR=\fIQUALITY\fR
The desired quality of the extracted tracks. For a list of available quality modes for a given format, try: -q help
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dir\fR=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
The target directory for the extracted tracks. If none is given, the current working directory is used. If the target directory does not exist, it will be created automatically.
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR=\fISTRING\fR
The format string to use for new filenames. Template fields are replaced with metadata values when new tracks are created. All other text is left as-is. If this option is omitted, a default format string is used.
.SH METADATA LOOKUP OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-musicbrainz\-server\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
the MusicBrainz server name to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-musicbrainz\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
the MusicBrainz port to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-musicbrainz\fR
don't query MusicBrainz for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-freedb\-server\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
the FreeDB server name to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-freedb\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
the FreeDB port to query for metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-freedb\fR
don't query FreeDB for metadata
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-default\fR
When multiple metadata choices are available, select the first one automatically. This option has no effect when used with -I
.SH METADATA OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-track\-start\fR=\fINUMBER\fR
the starting track number of the title being extracted
.TP
\fB\-\-track\-total\fR=\fINUMBER\fR
the total number of tracks, if the extracted title is only a subset of the actual number of tracks
.TP
\fB\-\-album\-number\fR=\fINUMBER\fR
the album number of this disc, if it is one in a series of albums
.TP
\fB\-\-album\-total\fR=\fINUMBER\fR
the total number of albums in this disc's set, if it is one in a series of albums
.TP
\fB\-\-replay\-gain\fR
add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-replay\-gain\fR
do not add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Extract all the tracks in title 1 from /dev/cdrom which is mounted at /media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS as FLAC files:
.IP
dvda2track -t flac -c /dev/cdrom -A /media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS

.LP
Sometimes a particularly long disc will split what should be a contiguous collection of tracks across more than one DVD-Audio title. For example, we may have a disc whose label indicates 30 tracks, but has placed 20 tracks in title 1 and 10 tracks in title 2 (according to dvdainfo(1)). In this instance, we can use the --title and --track-start options to extract them into a single collection.
.LP
Extract the first 20 tracks :

.IP
dvda2track -c /dev/cdrom -A /media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS --title=1 --track-total=30

.LP
Extract the final 10 tracks :

.IP
dvda2track -c /dev/cdrom -A /media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS --title=2 --track-start=21 --track-total=30

.SH FORMAT STRING FIELDS
.TS
tab(:);
| c   s |
| c | c |
| r | l |.
_
Template Fields
Key:Value
=
\fC%(track_number)2.2d\fR:the track's number on the CD
\fC%(track_total)d\fR:the total number of tracks on the CD
\fC%(album_number)d\fR:the CD's album number
\fC%(album_total)d\fR:the total number of CDs in the set
\fC%(album_track_number)s\fR:combination of album and track number
\fC%(track_name)s\fR:the track's name
\fC%(album_name)s\fR:the album's name
\fC%(artist_name)s\fR:the track's artist name
\fC%(performer_name)s\fR:the track's performer name
\fC%(composer_name)s\fR:the track's composer name
\fC%(conductor_name)s\fR:the track's conductor name
\fC%(media)s\fR:the track's source media
\fC%(ISRC)s\fR:the track's ISRC
\fC%(catalog)s\fR:the track's catalog number
\fC%(copyright)s\fR:the track's copyright information
\fC%(publisher)s\fR:the track's publisher
\fC%(year)s\fR:the track's publication year
\fC%(date)s\fR:the track's original recording date
\fC%(suffix)s\fR:the track's suffix
\fC%(basename)s\fR:the track's original name, without suffix
_
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR cdplay (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR covertag (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
